How do Missiles work?
Missile systems usually have five different components: targeting, guidance system, flight system, engine, warhead. Missiles are classified into different types based on firing source and target such as: surface-to-surface, air-to-surface, surface-to-air, air-to-air. In the following simulation we will be focusing on two types: surface-to-surface and surface-to-air.

Engine
Missiles are powered by propellants igniting to produce thrust. Rockets might be fueled by solid-propellants, liquid-propellants or hybrid. Thrust is the force which moves any missile through the air. Thrust is generated by the propulsion system of the missile. All thrust is generated through some application of Newton’s third law. For every reaction there is an equal and opposite reaction. In any propulsion system, a working fluid is accelerated by the system and the reaction to this acceleration produces a force on the system. A general derivation of the thrust equation shows that the amount of thrust generated depends on the mass flow through the engine and the exit velocity of the gas.

 Thrust equations
Thrust is a mechanical force which is generated through the reaction of accelerating a mass of gas, as explained by Newton’s third law of motion. A gas or working fluid is accelerated to the rear and the engine and missile are accelerated in the opposite direction. To accelerate the gas we need some kind of propulsion system, for now let us just think of the propulsion system as some machine which accelerates gas.

    • Momentum
      From newton’s second law of motion we can define a force F to be the change in momentum of an object with a change in time. Momentum is the object’s mass (m) times the velocity (v). so between two times t1 and t2, the force is given by:
      F = ((mv)2 – (mv)1)÷(t2-t1)
    • Force
      If we keep the mass constant and just change the velocity with time we obtain the simple force equation – force equals mass times acceleration (a)
      F = ma
    • Mass flow rate
    • Mass flow rate (m˙) represents how much mass of a fluid (liquid or gas) moves through a given plane per unit of time. It is an important concept in fluid dynamics, thermodynamics, and propulsion systems, as it helps quantify how much mass is transported through a system.
      m˙=ρVA
      where:
      ρ (rho) = Density of the fluid (kg/m³)
      V = Velocity of the fluid (m/s)
      A = Cross-sectional area through which the fluid passes (m²)




               General Thrust Equation
F=(m˙V)e​−(m˙V)0​+(pe​−p0​)Ae​
Where:
    • F = Thrust (force)
    • m˙ = Mass flow rate (kg/s)
    • V = Velocity (m/s)
    • pe​ = Exit pressure of the fluid (Pa)
    • p0​ = Ambient (free stream) pressure (Pa)
    • Ae​ = Exit area of the nozzle (m²)
    • Subscript e refers to the exit conditions of the propulsion system
    • Subscript 0 refers to the free stream (initial conditions
Fuel tank
The fuel tank of a missile plays a critical role in storing and delivering propellants to the engine for combustion. The design of the fuel tank depends on the type of propulsion system used in the missile. Which can be broadly classified into solid-propellant, liquid-propellant, hybrid propulsion systems.
Solid-Propellant Fuel Tank
In solid-propellant rockets, the fuel and oxidizer are premixed and cast into a solid form inside the missile’s propulsion chamber.
There is no separate fuel tank as the propellant itself is housed within the rocket motor casing.
The burn rate is controlled by the geometry of the propellant grain ,ensuring a stable thrust profile throughout the flight.
Once ignited, the solid propellant burns until depletion, making non-throttaleable and non-reusable.
Liquid-Propellant Fuel Tank
In liquid-fueled missiles, the fuel and oxidizer are stored in separate fuel tanks and are fed into the combustion chamber via pumps or pressure-fed systems.
These tanks must be pressurized to ensure a continuous flow of propellants to the engine.
The fuel and oxidizer mix in the combustion chamber, where they ignite to produce high-speed exhaust gases, generating thrust.
 Hybrid-Propellant Fuel Tank
Hybrid engines use a solid fuel with a liquid oxidizer, combining elements of both solid and liquid propulsion. The fuel tank stores only the oxidizer, while the solid fuel remains in the combustion chamber. The oxidizer is injected into the chamber, where it reacts with the solid fuel to produce thrust. This system allows for throttle control and shutdown capability while maintaining simpler logistics compared to liquid rockets.


Guidance Systems
Missile guidance refers to a variety of methods of guiding a missile or a guided bomb to its intended target. The missile's target accuracy is a critical factor for its effectiveness. Guidance systems improve missile accuracy by improving its Probability of Guidance (Pg).
These guidance technologies can generally be divided up into a number of categories, with the broadest categories being "active", "passive", and "preset" guidance. Missiles and guided bombs generally use similar types of guidance system, the difference between the two being that missiles are powered by an onboard engine, whereas guided bombs rely on the speed and height of the launch aircraft for propulsion. 
For the sake of the simulation, we will not be delving into all guidance systems but rather a select few.

Inertial Guidance Systems
Inertial guidance uses sensitive measurement devices to calculate the location of the missile due to the acceleration put on it after leaving a known position. Early mechanical systems were not very accurate, and required some sort of external adjustment to allow them to hit targets even the size of a city. Modern systems use solid state ring laser gyros that are accurate to within meters over ranges of 10,000 km, and no longer require additional inputs. Gyroscope development has culminated in the AIRS found on the MX missile, allowing for an accuracy of less than 100 m at intercontinental ranges. Many civilian aircraft use inertial guidance using a ring laser gyroscope, which is less accurate than the mechanical systems found in ICBMs, but which provide an inexpensive means of attaining a fairly accurate fix on location (when most airliners such as Boeing's 707 and 747 were designed, GPS was not the widely commercially available means of tracking that it is today). Today guided weapons can use a combination of INS, GPS and radar terrain mapping to achieve extremely high levels of accuracy such as that found in modern cruise missiles.
Inertial guidance is most favored for the initial guidance and reentry vehicles of strategic missiles, because it has no external signal and cannot be jammed. Additionally, the relatively low precision of this guidance method is less of an issue for large nuclear warheads. 
Preset Guidance
Preset guidance is the simplest type of missile guidance. From the distance and direction of the target, the trajectory of the flight path is determined. Before firing, this information is programmed into the missile's guidance system, which, during flight, maneuvers the missile to follow that path. All of the guidance components (including sensors such as accelerometers or gyroscopes) are contained within the missile, and no outside information (such as radio instructions) is used. An example of a missile using preset guidance is the V-2 Rocket.

Proportional Navigation
Proportional navigation (also known as "PN" or "Pro-Nav") is a guidance principle used in some form or another by most homing air target missiles. It is based on the fact that two objects are on a collision course when the direction of their direct line-of-sight does not change. PN dictates that the missile velocity vector should rotate at a rate proportional to the rotation rate of the line of sight (line-Of-sight rate or LOS-rate) and in the same direction. 
Flight System (Aerodynamics & Control)
Airframe
Structure of the missile, including materials, shape and aerodynamic properties.
Control Surfaces
Fins, canards, thrust vectoring systems used for manuvering.
Actuators
Mechanisms that move control surfaces.
Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU)
Provides acceleration and orientation data.

Targeting & Sensing Systems
Seeker (Electro-Optical / IR, Radar, Lasers, etc) 
Detects and locks onto targets.
Proximity Sensors
Determines when the missile is close enough to detonate
Data Link
Allows in-flight updates from external sources for midcourse guidance.
Radar Altimeter
Measures altitude for terrain-following missiles.

Warheads
Explosive Payload
High-explosive, fragmentation, shaped charge, etc.
Fuze Mechanism
Determines when to detonate (impact, proximity or timed)
Damage Mechanism
Blast, fragmentation, or kinetic energy effects.
